---
layout: post
title: "MFCC Articles Summary"
author: "Sebastian"
categories: project
---

# Music Feature Extraction in Python

Source: [Music Extraction in Python](https://towardsdatascience.com/extract-features-of-music-75a3f9bc265d)

## Packages

We’ll be using librosa for analyzing and extracting features of an audio signal.

For playing audio we will use pyAudio so that we can play music on jupyter directly.

    import librosa
    audio_path = 'audio-path'
    x , sr = librosa.load(audio_path)
    print(type(x), type(sr))

x = time series
sr = sample rate of x; consider overwriting to sr=44100

## Playing audio

  import IPython.display as ipd
  ipd.Audio(audio_path)

## Display methods

- wave plot: loudness of audio at given time
- spectrogram: show different frequencies along with amplitude
- colormap
- stft (short term fourier transform): determines the amplitude of various frequencies at a given time

## Feature Extraction

- Zero Crossing Rate: rate at which the signal changes from positive to negative or back

    x, sr = librosa.load(audio_path)
    #Plot the signal:
    plt.figure(figsize=(14, 5))
    librosa.display.waveplot(x, sr=sr)

- Zooming in:

    n0 = 9000
    n1 = 9100
    plt.figure(figsize=(14, 5))
    plt.plot(x[n0:n1])
    plt.grid()

- Spectral centroid: indicates where centre of mass for sound is located
- Spectral rolloff: is frequency under which a specified percentage of total spectral energy lies

- MFCC: mel frequency cepstral coefficients of a signal are a small set of features which concisely describe the overall shape of a spectral envelope

    mfccs = librosa.feature.mfcc(x, sr=sr)
    print(mfccs.shape)
    #Displaying  the MFCCs:
    librosa.display.specshow(mfccs, sr=sr, x_axis='time')

# Dummy guide to MFCC

Summary: MFCC features represent phonemes (distinct units of sound) as the shape of the vocal tract (which is responsible for sound generation) is manifest in them.

Source: [The Dummy's Guide to MFCC](https://medium.com/prathena/the-dummys-guide-to-mfcc-aceab2450fd)

## Term explanation

Cespstral is 'spectral' with 'spec' inverted. __Cepstrum is the information of rate of cahnge in spectral bands__.

[Fourier transform]: https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*rT54GmJmFG0PU9OQHzQUVg.png

Pitch is one of the characteristics of a speech signal and is measured as the frequency of the signal.

*Mel scale* is scale that relates the perceived frequency of a tone to the actual frequency because humans hear differently. They are better at identifying small changes in speech at lower frequencies.

## Getting the Cepstral coefficients

[Diagram overview]: https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*dWnjn5LLS0j8St53ACwqSg.jpeg

# MFCC Tutorial

Source: [MFCC Tutorial]: http://practicalcryptography.com/miscellaneous/machine-learning/guide-mel-frequency-cepstral-coefficients-mfccs/

### Implementations

Implemented MFCCs in python, available [here]: https://github.com/jameslyons/python_speech_features. Use the 'Download ZIP' button on the right hand side of the page to get the code.

There is a good MATLAB implementation of MFCCs over [here]: http://labrosa.ee.columbia.edu/matlab/rastamat/.

### References

- Davis, S. Mermelstein, P. (1980) Comparison of Parametric Representations for Monosyllabic Word Recognition in Continuously Spoken Sentences. In IEEE Transactions on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, Vol. 28 No. 4, pp. 357-366

- X. Huang, A. Acero, and H. Hon. Spoken Language Processing: A guide to theory, algorithm, and system development. Prentice Hall, 2001.
